What I want to do today is not come here to bore you to death with numbers and statistics and all of that. What I want to do today is introduce you to an idea. I want to plant a seed in your minds and allow it to blossom into something great. The seed I want to plant today is on the topic of broadband internet. I hear a mixed conversation on the topic. Some people say they have no problems, and hey! I get it... some of you have to be outside to work and couldn't care less about the internet. 

But then..... there's the rest of us. 

Those of us whom use the internet for work and play can see where a 1 gigabit internet connection could be useful. To paint a picture in your mind, you are a family of 4, seems reasonable in this day and age. Let's say by the time everyone in the house is at least 10 years old, they have two dedicated gadgets ALWAYS connected to your home wireless network. You are up to 8 gadgets likely pulling notifications, updates, playing youtubes, playing facebook videos, playing videos wherever else, streaming music, watching television shows in 1080, 4K, or even 8K (we'll leave that for another discussion for brevity's sake) and so many other applications will be using the internet connection. It seems more and more often family members are bickering because of the fact there is not enough bandwidth to go around. 

THIS is where fiber optic networking and gigabit, 10 gigabit and 100 gigabit bandwidths come into play. When you have the typical internet connection that's available now for a reasonable price, you end up with 50-100mbps. Nothing to complain about, that's for certain. 

The problem comes in when you have those 8 gadgets + others in the home constantly utilizing that internet connection to get in touch with the outside world to see what is going on in the world, you're going to have slowdowns on one or more of them. We need to add capacity to the weakest link in our chains, and that's definitely internet. Until internet speeds are faster than a consumer computer can handle in it's hard drive, processors, and memory, they aren't where they should be. Bandwidth is NOT the precious commodity that the big Cable companies and TelCo companies have led you to believe they are. They are just a precious commodity to the cable companies that have antiquated equipment that would cost billions and possibly TRILLIONS to upgrade. It's time to treat the internet infrastructure like the roads and allow ANYBODY to use them equally!

Researchers are currently perfecting a single fiber optic strand that can handle the capacity of the total data traffic of the entire planet. We are working with technology that can handle the capacity of the total data usage needs of Weston for the next five to ten decades! There is absolutely no reason to not search for grant monies, very low interest loans via deals worked out with local banks, or even use a revenue bond or two! 



10,000 subscribers getting 100Gbps would need switching equipment to handle 976.5625 Tbps of aggregate bandwidth.